# ARCHIVED. I am using kolabs calendar and it works fine and is activly developed and maintened by several individuals.


# Caldav Calendar Plugin for Roundcube & NextCloud

I would really **LOVE** a little help on this project. Tons of lines of code to go through for just one old man.  
I know it would be a **HUGE HELP** to me personally and many other individual users because I really believe  
this Calendar can become something amazing with some skilled PHP Developers on my side. I am self taught  
at what I do and I have pulled some pretty cool stuff off. Out of the many other calendar plugins hosted on  
Github that I have used, this one is by far the best choice, IMHO, and I am far from the best at PHP. So that  
is why I am asking for help. If someone like me, who knows just enough programming to be dangerous, can do  
something like this, just imagine what a properly trained Programmer can do.  
Thank you for listening to this old mans ramblings.  
  
---  

**Tested and working using the following:**  
* Debian 9.13  
* Apache2 v2.4.25  
* Roundcube v1.4.8  
* Composer v1.10.9  
* Nextcloud v19.0  
* PHP v7.2.32  
* MySQL Server v5.7.31  
* Sabre/Dav v4.1.1  
* Sabre/Event v5.1.0  
* Sabre/Http v5.1.0  
* Sabre/Uri v2.2.0  
* Sabre/Vobject v4.3.1  
* Sabre/Xml v2.2.1  

**Installation** 

`<=PHP7.1` - `  composer require "texxasrulez/calendar": "~0.0.6.0"  `  Compatible with RCMCARDDAV ~3.0.3  
`>=PHP7.2` - `  composer require "texxasrulez/calendar": "~0.0.7.0"  `  Compatible with RCMCARDDAV ^4.0  

This will download latest release version.  
It will inject all sql schemas associated with this plugin with the exception of Kolab and LDAP.  
I have left those schemas in the original direcotry of drivers/<driver-type>/SQL to manual install if you so desire  

After composer does its thang, change directories to plugins/calendar and type  
`  composer run-script post-install-cmd  `  
This will copy a file over to fix all-day recurring showing up a day early bug.  
Remember to edit your config.inc.php for your url and you should be good to go.  

**Multiple Databases now Supported**  
* MSSQL  
* MySQL (Only One I have used)  
* Postgres  
* Oracle  
* SQLite  

I have only personally tested the MySQL schema then converted it to the other SQL Servers out there  
that should work just fine. Let us all know if you have a known working calendar on the other DB's or can help add more.  

**Elastic Skin Support now available**

I forked this with the intent to make a working, out of the box caldav enabled calendar for exclusive use with Nextcloud.

I will maintain this repo for as long as I can.

This plugin is intended to be used with Nexcloud only at this point in time. The Calendar Plugin will sync already  
existing calendars from Nextcloud. If you want more than the default, you must add calendar within Nextcloud Calendar GUI  
and then go back to Roundcube and it will magically appear in your Roundcube Calendar GUI after a good refresh (F5).  
From Roundcube Calendar GUI, you can add, edit, delete, download, copy and add attachments to events. iTip invitations  
are succesfully sent, accepted, declined, etc upon inviting attendees ...   

***VERY IMPORTANT***  
 Some of this should be moot now thanks to @MAT-WEISS-2017 for contributing his time and some code to help get around the crossed out requirements.  
 I have not tested this but this user has contributed code in the past and has nailed it every time.  
 
Your roundcube and nextcloud must be run from same domain, no subdomains because of cross-scripting issues.  
If you are skilled in the ways of the Server Admin, you should have no trouble getting around the cross-scripting issue.  

The Nextcloud account must be created and user must log into Nextcloud at least once before calendar will sync in Roundcube.  
The user can just click on the "Cloud" icon if you are using my Nextcloud Plugin and that will trigger calendar and addressbook creation.  
Nextcloud does not create calendars until the initial login, so there will be no calendar for the Roundcube Calendar to find.  
  
~~Your username and password **must** be the same for Nextcloud and Roundcube to work properly.  
There shouldn't be any issues if you create your users in Nextcloud using the exact username and password required to login to Roundcube.  
There are configurable parameters to alter your email for logins within Roundcube config that may help you out if you require something a little different.~~  

**Known Issues**

* Will not create new calendar from Roundcube Calendar GUI.

**New Features**

- Installable via composer  
- Plugin now uses the des_key that is randomly generated by Roundcube during install. No more having to remember to change the key in Calendar config.inc.php file.
- utf8mb4 Support is now available. ie .. Emoji's within Calendar Title, Description and Locations are supported.
- Randomly generated Colors for calendars upon sync.
- Can now specify time frame (in seconds) intervals to sync your calendar.

**Wishlist**

- [ ] Add the ability to create new calendar within Roundcube Calendar GUI.  
- [ ] Oauth support for a wider range of calendar choices. (Next thing I want so I am working on it.)  
- [ ] Add a preview / agenda list in main Mail Tab within the left side column at the bottom.  
- [x] ~~Assign random colors upon initial sync of calendars.~~ - Thank you @drlight17  
- [ ] Add sound notifications.  
- [ ] Integrate a Caldav Enabled Tasklist plugin. (This is on the very back burner.)  
- [x] ~~Add Emoticon Support.~~ @texxasrulez  
- [x] ~~Remove mcrypt and replace with openssl.~~ Thank you @MAT-WEISS-2017  
* User feature requests are always welcome but I cannot guarantee if I can pull it off ... :relaxed:  

**Submitting Issues**

Since I constantly work on this, issues may or may not be attended to in any timely manner. I will be introducing bugs and fixing and back again.  
Issue Submitting is by all means totally welcome since details given by users will help me out ...  
I will always specify the latest working stable release to download and use.  

:moneybag: **Donations** :moneybag:

If you use this plugin and would like to show your appreciation by buying me a cup of coffee, I surely would appreciate it.  
A regular cup of Joe is sufficient, but a Starbucks Coffee would be better ...  
Zelle (Zelle is integrated within many major banks Mobile Apps by default) - Just send to texxasrulez at yahoo dot com  
No Zelle in your banks mobile app, no problem, just click [Paypal](https://paypal.me/texxasrulez?locale.x=en_US) and I can make a Starbucks run ...

I appreciate the interest in this plugin and wish nothing but the best for all ...  
